Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture or logical operators logical operators will allow us to combine
multiple comparison operators.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and see how they work.
All right.
So here we are our studio and the three logical operators are going to be learning about is the and
operator the OR operator and then the NOT operator.
The best way to explain these is through some examples.
Imagine we have a variable x which is just the integer 10.
Now I want to know if this variable x is less than 20 and if it's greater than a five I could type two
commands and I could say X less than 20 will return true and then X greater than 5 also returns true
.
What I really want to do though is write this all in one line using the and logical operator.
So what I would then do something like this x less than 20 and then have the answer symbol.
So usually above the 7 so shift 7 and then the next comparison operator which is X greater than 5.
And so this sort of logical operator will return true when both statements are true.
And sometimes people also like to use parentheses in order to organize their logical operations so we
could do something like this.
And it will still work.
Whichever one you prefer is up to you.
I personally like the parentheses makes it a little more readable in other know of logical operators
.
It doesn't just have to be only two comparisons.
We can have multiple comparisons.
So I could then add a third one cell say and x is equal to 10.
So check for equality on that.
And that will also return True the and statement requires that all of the comparison operators are conditional
statements to be true.
So for example in this last operation I said and equals to nine will return false.
Because even though these first two statements are true.
This last one is false and this and requires that both conditions are true in order to return true.
So we can essentially think of these as a series of logical boolean values where we have true and true
and false in the second case.
True in this first case.
So for instance I could just say true and true and return back true if I say true and false.
Notice I'll get back false.
Now let's say you wanted or so we wanted something to return true.
If either or those two conditional statements were true I'm going to go ahead and clear this to show
you what I'm talking about.
Let's see.
I'm checking for X to be equal to either 100 which it's not 410 which it is.
So I want to write some sort of statement that will return true if either of those statements is true
.
And that's where the OR operator comes into play.
I can say X is going to make parentheses.
That's really clear X equal to 10 or X equal to 100 and they'll return true because one of these statements
at least one of these statements is true.
So either this is true or this is true or they're both true.
But one of them at least has to be true or logical operator works.
However if they were both false.
For instance we had the first one set to 10000 enter it will get false.
So that's just how to use the logical operator.
We need one or the other to be true or they can both be true in the and statement.
We needed everything to be true in order to return a final logical value of true.
Finally we have the knot which is that exclamation mark.
So you can think of about not as reversing any logical value in front of it.
It's basically asking is this not true.
Might be a little confusing because of the use of the double negatives.
So let's show you some examples.
I'm going to go ahead and start off with a very simple statement print CS 10 check for equality with
one.
Now obviously that's going to return false.
If I apply the not operator to this however 10 equals one it returns true.
So again we can think of this is basically asking is this not true.
And in that case is it not true.
Well it does return true.
So you can think of it again is just asking is this not the conditional case.
You can also stack exclamation marks together.
I would advise against this.
So there's no real good reason to be stacking multiple exclamation marks as not checks but just keep
in mind your programs won't throw any errors if you keep stacking them like this.
And that's just constantly checking.
Is it not.
Not not not not not not true.
But obviously it's very hard to understand very hard to read.
So you should avoid doing that kind of operation.
Now that we've seen some simple examples of these sort of logical operators Let's see some more realistic
use cases for these to start up with these new examples.
We'll start with saying T.F. so the variable def will sign empty cars to it.
So if I say headier if it's just the anti-course data frame imagine I wanted to ask what models of cars
have a mpg.
That's greater than 20 mpg.
What we could do is say DMF square brackets for indexing DF mpg greater than 20 Khama.
And if we break down what this operation is actually doing all this trying to say is data frame return
all the rows where the depth of the miles per gallon column is greater than 20 Khama all the columns
for those values.
If we wanted to only get certain columns back we could say mpg and I would just return those specific
mpg.
All right.
Good and clear that notice the these of the indexing with that comma.
We could have also used subset cycled could've done something like this subset our data frame mpg greater
than 20 and that returns the same results.
That's using one comparison operation.
Now we can do if these new logical operators is combine these sort of filters.
So I want to go ahead and show how to do that.
Well good and clear that will say DMF square brackets less square.
MPG is greater than 20 hands.
So Note the use of the logical operator and they're all as square the horsepower column is greater than
100.
And then I going to put a comma there because I want all the columns returned.
And now I can filter out on multiple conditions on my data frame using the logical operators in conjunction
with comparison operators.
We could have also used another logical operator such as or to select cars where the MPG are greater
than 20 or the horsepower is greater than 100.
And notice we get back way more values.
So that's a way more flexible condition filter to pass.
OK.
That's really all we're going to discuss right now for the logical operators.
Don't worry too much if you didn't fully understand the sort of filtering on the data frame we're going
to practice and learn much more about that when we talk about a data frame overview of all the operations
we can perform on data frames in a subsequent lecture.
For now just remember that you can use logical operators like and or and then the not logical operator
in order to combine comparison filters.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture